
As part of your first day, have your point of contact walk you around the office - this is primarily a chance to understand the office layout and meet the rest of the staff, but take mental note of the devices in use and laying out on desks as you walk around the office.  Note as well the location and access to components such as servers and networking components. Taking actual notes may make the staff feel that you are judging them, especially if this is your first interaction -- refrain from this, and if needed, also consider a more "neutral" note-taking process by integrating the Office Mapping activity.

If the auditor is unable to go to the office (or can only visit one of multiple offices), consider having the point of contact use a video call. You will want to have the entire staff be aware of this activity and know the person who is walking around the office.  This requires sufficient bandwidth (and unmetered or low-cost) for a 1-hour video call.  This could be scheduled for before or after office hours to both discover how devices are left overnight as well as reducing the impact on the network.

Similarly, the in-person tour can also be done outside of normal business hours. Please note: this can damage the trust the staff has in the auditor, as well as unintentionally embarrassing specific staff members in the eyes of the point of contact. It is not recommended to do this except for organizations who have already received training and worked on improving their physical/operational security practices and face an active adversary. This could be before the staff arrives in the morning, during lunch, or after hours (perhaps have dinner with your point of contact, and come back to check the organization afterwards). This gives a clearer picture of how devices are secured outside of the work day (are desktops and laptops unsecured, still on, logged in?).  Are backup drives or other storage media easily accessible? Are doors to server rooms/closets locked?  Are keys to these locked cabinets/rooms visible?
