
## Disclaimers

  * **SAFETAG should not be attempted without the proper expertise.** The SAFETAG process requires both technical and facilitation expertise. As such, while the process is built to allow a single auditor, the process can easily be split between a facilitator/trainer and a technical auditor. In fact, if an auditor does not have both the required technical expertise and experience facilitating structured activities with at-risk groups, we **highly recommend** working with a specialist who can fill the missing role. *Inexperienced or untrained auditors can possibly hinder the mission of the host organization or put them at risk.*"

  * **SAFETAG does not provide in depth training to a host organization.** SAFETAG audits often include short, targeted support on specific issues, but these are not substitutes for in-depth training of personnel. The audit does not itself resolve any of the issues uncovered - it's purpose is to find vulnerabilities relevant to the organizations needs in the short time on-location, and equip the organization to understand and respond to these in a rapid, resilient, effective, and cost-efficient manner. Because of this a large part of the SAFETAG post-audit practice is focused on helping an organization understand how they can identify the training and technical support that they may need to respond to their digital security needs.

  * **SAFETAG audits are not a replacement for the implementation of security controls, or maintenance of system security.** SAFETAG is focused on helping small at-risk organizations prioritize and develop a digital security process from the ground up that respects their constraints of limited time, funding, and emotional energy. SAFETAG hopes to guide an organization to begin a ongoing digital security process, not replace it.

  * **SAFETAG audits do not provide an exhaustive and verifiable outputs that a professional industry standard security-audit would provide.** Many low-income vulnerable groups have neither the money, time, or manpower to respond to a full security audit. SAFETAG uses a customized combination of selected assessment techniques derived from standards in the security auditing world to provide an organization driven risk assessment and mitigation consultation that aims to help this type of organization identify practices and resources that will allow them to strategically move towards greater security.
