**Due to the limited window of time, the auditor should focus on identifying suspicious activities and triaging them rapidly**. Many of these will be false positives related to other non-malicious software causing the machine to "act weird" or other types of less serious (and non-targeted) malicious software like adware or ransomware.

When this cannot be ruled out, collecting evidence, running basic research and analysis, and assessing the risk and impact against organizational priorities will help prioritize further action. In-depth binary analysis is best kept for post-audit work during the reporting and follow-up phases. If critical assets are compromised, the auditor might need to coordinate urgent mitigation measures with other IT experts.

Time management is extremely crucial when responding to potential malware infections and similar more advanced threats. If using this method, the auditor should constantly question whether to continue this process or complete other aspects of their audit plan. At the end of the audit process, not having an understanding of the organization's risk tolerance, existing capacity, current practices/processes/policies and existing informational assets will undermine the auditor's ability to provide a prioritized report or understand the context around the potentially malicious activity they have uncovered.

* **Adversary Capability Assessment** - This should be an output from the technical context research work. Are there Advanced Persistent Threats which should be taken into account? How do they operate? Are there known indicators of compromise to look for?
* **Analyzing Specific Suspicious Events/Activities** - If the organization have specific concerns or evidence suggesting a targeted attack, the auditor can focus attention to match them against any known attacks or flag them for further research.
* **Looking for Indicators of Compromise and Threat Hunting** - If the organization suspect that they have been compromised, but do not have any specific, suspicious device/process/email, the auditor can leverage techniques to intelligently spend their time to investigate further.
* **Capture Evidence for later Analysis** - If suspicious activities are identified, the auditor may want to capture evidence to analyze or share with professionals. This is time-consuming and the captured evidence is high-risk, so be extremely careful in pursuing this.
* **In-Depth Analysis** - If malware is discovered, but cannot be identified, further analysis will be necessary. This may also trigger a change in assessment scope and/or an incident response approach.
