A common refrain, among auditors, software developers and other specialists in this sector, is that digital security is not about technology; it is about people. This is undeniably true, and even the previous SAFETAG modules—despite their more direct fixation on technology—acknowledge this insight by emphasizing the educational and a persuasive roles played by your findings report. The staff assessment methodology focuses more directly on the human behavior aspect of digital security. For the time being, it is primarily a list of questions to help you “interview” staff members who play various roles in the organization.

Some of the responses you receive to these questions might belong in the final report itself (either transcribed or paraphrased), and the SAFETAG reporting template provides a structure for this. However, they will also help you identify elements of an organization’s infrastructure and workflow that you might otherwise have overlooked. Furthermore, staff interviews often lead the way to a deeper exploration of potential technical vulnerabilities. Accordingly, this is done before, and throughout the audit.

Q&A sessions are unabashedly white box aspects of a security assessment, and you will occasionally hear push-back along the lines of, “sure, but you wouldn’t even have found that thing if we hadn’t told you about this other thing.” Compelling black box findings certainly do have an advantage when it comes to persuasiveness, but obtaining them can be quite time-consuming, so relying exclusively on vulnerabilities that you can identify without “help” is generally a mistake in this resource-constrained sector.
